hey guys in the following podcast you're
going to hear the e2
expert ielts teacher alex talk to
another e2 expert ielts teacher
anna about the ielts writing criteria
and why it is people get stuck on ielts
6 or ielts 6.5 all the time okay
so in this video they're going to deep
dive into that checklist that the
examiners use to mark your writing
and explain in detail why it is that
people sometimes get stuck
cool i hope you enjoy it if you're stuck
on your ielts remember you can go to
e2language.com
sign up for free join some of our live
classes and there's heaps of stuff on
the website
anyway enjoy the podcast
hi i'm alex from e2 language and today
i'm going to be talking to one of our
expert
tutors an e2 legend actually which
is dr anna and dr anna is
one of our teachers and live class
teachers also
just an all-round linguistics hero
and one of our most popular teachers
here at e2 language and she's going to
talk to us today about
ielts writing in particular we're going
to focus on ielts writing task 2
and talk about how to boost your score
up to band 7
and band 8. so anna thank you so much
for joining me
thank you i'm delighted to be here alex
i'm i'm really
thank you so much for inviting me and
it's wonderful to be here with you
to talk about ielts task 2. yes our
favorite topic
it is one of our favorite topics indeed
can you tell us a little bit about your
background and also how long you've been
at e2
and what your role is with us okay so
well at e2 i've been with e2
for two years now and i'm an expert
tutor which means it's like
over 1000 tutorials right wow yeah so
that's
a nice number and most of the time i've
had so much
fun in fact so it's hard work but it's
fun at the same time
i also mark the assessments which i
really love marking
and going through what the students have
written and helped them
out with what what they need to improve
i also like to write blogs whenever i
have the chance i'd love to have
a chance to write more blogs
and so i'm i'm a linguist in fact i'm an
applied linguist as they call it that
means that i studied i have studied like
for many years decades maybe how the
process of
learning a foreign language because you
have the applied linguist
is specialized on learning how
to study a foreign language learning a
foreign language in particular
and in my case it's english so because i
speak like
three languages and i'm now studying my
fourth language
so what's that one something so i speak
french and english because i was born
and i grew up in canada
my mom is brazilian so she taught me
brazilian portuguese
and now i'm starting to study arabic
because of my ancestors
wow okay yeah abroad
classes for for arabic online
yes online the best way
yes the best way indeed so that's the so
language is something i've always loved
and
i've i've i've i've strived to work with
foreign students and
english as a foreign language because it
seems that you empower
you know it empowers the students to
learn
english as a foreign language
yeah i think working in high stakes
testing like ielts preparation pte we
really get to see
what's at stake for the students who are
preparing for these tests you know
it's their whole life often it's their
further study
it's immigration it comes down to well
it means so much to them and it's very
stressful
a very stressful preparation period
which is
why i guess we try to implement our
methods and our systems and feedback to
really help them
overcome this obstacle and move on with
their life so that they're not
stuck preparing for ielts forever
and so i think that's something that
we've talked about quite a lot and why
we set up this podcast was
to address that issue of students who
are stuck at six or six point five
they're taking the test over and over
and so during this session we're going
to talk about why that happens
and then your experience in helping
students
overcome that reach band 7 7.5 and then
let's look in
at each criterion in a bit of detail and
talk about
the problems students face and what they
can do to
do better definitely let's see
so i'll let you talk about it the
students who are stuck
on 6 and 6.5 in your experience as a
tutor and also
marking the assessments what do you
think are the main reasons why
somebody cannot score bad seven
well firstly we know how disappointing
it is when they get that result
and especially when they get it over and
over because they've been
they've had so many attempts and it's so
disappointing when they get that result
of six six point five because
christmas 6.5 when they're aiming for a
seven it's just that little push
so uh from what i see and
i really love talking to the students
after they have succeeded
because then they give us a lot of
feedback
and they confirm that the methods really
are is the essence of it when they
follow the methods they feel confident
they feel that they're able to manage
their time better
but essentially where they lack the most
firstly many of them they try to do a
self-study plan so they try to study on
their own
and they grasp things from the internet
and sometimes there are so many myths on
the internet you have they have to be
very careful with that yeah and it takes
up
it takes a specialist an expert in ielts
to really provide a good study plan
a well-structured study plan that they
can follow
and progress or else they won't be able
to
to progress and to see progress in their
writing
um i agree yeah there aren't many points
but there are a few points that i have
seen
to experience many of them also
they have a lot of trouble with managing
their time in their writing
it seems something so obvious that you
have to learn how to manage your time
there's a clock look at the clock
and it's like it seems easy but it's not
they really get stuck they don't have
time to review what they wrote
so they end up handing in an essay with
silly spelling mistakes and
and that's where the score goes down you
know i think it was a real
um eye opener when we introduced the
mock test at e2
and the assessors were saying i the
students submitted their mock test
but there's a task one in there and then
five words of a task two so we realized
they're mismanaging their time so badly
that they're spending
it what seems like 59 minutes on task
one one minute on task two so
it's yeah it's a real lesson for the
students and also a lesson for us that
we've really got to push them not just
to know they know you've got to write
for 40 minutes you've got to write for
20 minutes but
can you actually do it have you actually
done it before the test that's that's a
completely different thing and have you
done it
over and over and over as well
definitely and so that's another thing
they have to practice
you know it's it's it's like crucial to
get a lot of practice
and i don't like giving numbers but many
of them say okay how much do i have to
practice
but you can't kind of like give an idea
and i always like to say
that it's like 20 20 is the number and
and i can
i can explain why if you consider that
in task two you have an average
nine different types right if the
student is taking the academic
then he has another eight different
types in academic writing
so that means 20 is just like one of
each
right it's even not even enough honestly
speaking right
one of each so i always say you need to
have a
number of essays written and to get
feedback on that
not only right but you need the feedback
on it
in order to really see progress so
as i say i don't like to give numbers
but i think that it's very easy to
understand at least 20
you know if you're an academic a test
taker
and if you're a general at least like 15
would be minimum yeah but of course
double would be the perfect number
because that would give you a chance
of doing it once getting feedback and
then another one
trying to incorporate all of the
mistakes that you have
eliminate the mistakes and the students
that you've worked with i remember you
saying some of them they were writing
um every day is that something that also
you would recommend leading up to the
test definitely definitely
because it's like it's an hour a day for
you to write the two
tasks so i mean if you're really an
ielts prep test taker you need to put in
at least that one hour a day
ideally two hours a day so that you
could still have time for the
other skills but it's the best way to go
it's to practice writing
every day and that the type of practice
as well
the way we've structured our live class
curriculum where we have
a class that works on skills and vocab a
bit more and then a class that works
on really the time management where they
write the full task
in in the time is that something else
that you would recommend doing both
types of practice definitely
definitely the life classes they guide
the student
they help the student focus on the
necessary elements
to produce a well-written and
well-structured
essay and or task one now
another element that can't be forgotten
is that reading is the foundation of
language
and every student in order to be a good
writer you need to be a good reader
and that is fundamental
but what should the student be reading
at this moment that he's an ielts prep
you know he's preparing for ielts he has
to read well-structured material
authentic and varied in topics
so we have lots of recommendations we
in the live classes we recommend so
in your videos you recommend frequently
in the in our toolkits as well
there's recommendations for the readings
but that is something that the students
should set aside
i would say daily 30 minutes a day
[Music]
yeah i agree i think and the difference
you see when a student
um you know in class if the student has
done the preparatory
reading or they've read something on
that topic the difference in the quality
of their writing is
is incredible just having a little bit
of a
grounding and a little bit of sort of
activating that vocab and those ideas
before they start writing can make
a massive difference so as they're
preparing for the test i agree
reading widely so important what are
your favorite reading resources to
recommend
well i really like science daily and
the reason why i like it is because the
texts in it are so well structured
and they're the material is very
authentic so it's
it it screams aisles it's like exactly
what ielts
presents in the reading material and it
offers the student the opportunity of
variety
because they have health technology
environment which are very hot topics
for
for ielts now something that's very
interesting in ielts and
maybe some students haven't realized
that but suddenly you practice the
speaking material
and that topic of the speaking material
suddenly can be your writing task
and sometimes you practice a writing
task that can be your speaking task
yeah so that's that's why it's important
to get lots of practice and read a lot
to have a lot of you know information
to be able to develop the topics well
i think that's a really it's a good side
effect of ielts preparation even though
it can be
traumatic for people but it's like
teaching it and developing materials
like we do
it's you're always learning something so
interesting so
even for us native speakers we're
picking up um
yeah definitely great ideas and reading
about new scientific developments and
things like that it's it's just
a good general knowledge booster
definitely and it's interesting how we
also learn a lot from the students isn't
it
they have so much to share they have so
much and so
and and they have a lot of information
too and maybe they're not even aware of
that
so that's also something that i really
like about teaching the tutorials you
meet wonderful people and
share and they have a lot of information
sometimes they take for granted
information that they they know
[Music]
yeah let's let's come back to that when
we talk about task response as well how
students can draw on
on their own knowledge um do you want to
tell us a few of your success stories i
know if um
anybody looks at our facebook reviews or
our trust pilot they'll see
i love dr anna she saved my life what
are some of the people that you've
helped
in ielts right yes i'm
grateful to all of them because they
really come back and they let us know
they send in their results
some of them even pop up in the live
classes say hey i got it
the other day one student said oh i see
a beautiful seven in my score report
so it's like the most beautiful seven i
said indeed it is
so i had several students but maria was
one that was
quite uh i mean it was quite a challenge
she had taken out eight times she was
devastated and she was like
almost hopeless and suddenly we started
working together and i really
pushed her hard but she also responded
she was i mean tireless she worked hard
every single day and she
and she was very insecure because she
would get
straight eights and nines in like
reading listening and speaking
and the writing was always six six so we
worked together and she came back with
an
eight wow i know it was
it was i i cried honestly it was like a
joy you know you know tears of joy
and and and we and we called each other
on what's happening you know
because she really wanted to talk to me
so it was so
rewarding working with maria what a job
she was like 18 19 years old very young
yes and what were the changes that you
helped her to to implement in her
writing
okay so basically she really wasn't
aware that
her grammar mistakes i mean
she had never had any kind of feedback
so that was something that i think that
was lagging for her so she had high
frequency
grammatical and lexical errors so that
was something that we really worked on
and because that really limits the
quality of the response right when you
have high
frequency of grammar and lexical errors
that's it yeah we really that's classic
six isn't it just
high error density even though the idea
is everything might be clear but just
that
number of errors you're not gonna get a
seven or eight if they're too many
yeah and she really she had no idea as i
said she had never had
a tutor she had never she had until then
had her own self study plan with you
know
bits and pieces that she would grab from
the internet yeah so
thank goodness she came to us and as i
say he was very successful
then i also had marco which was a very
interesting experience
marco is he's from argentina and he
lives in
germany and he needed the ielts
seven you know at all costs but he came
to us like
one week before the test yeah
but he had already written it several
times and he is
a master student so he does have some
kind of
uh level of education in terms of
knowledge
so we worked every day he had five
tutorials we worked from monday to
friday and he did
he took his test on saturday and he came
back also
but he was tireless also he worked hard
he did 20 writings in five days wow
and what was his score in the end 7.5
in writing and eight eight eight and
nine
like in listening he got nine beautiful
so that was also
amazing and then uh there's
ahmed ahmed was quite an experience
because he was a
he's a doctor he's from he's in
england now and he needed the ielts to
pursue his
phd studies and he had also taken it
three times it was his fourth time
and his he was lagging in
developing ideas that's where he was
stuck
he had good grammar good vocabulary but
he couldn't develop
extend his main ideas very well
so that's well we worked hard on that
he also came to us like two days before
the test
so he had had tutorials previously
but when i met him it was like two days
before the test
so and i i pinpointed it
he sent back writings with correcting
he took all his previous writings that
he had done and tried to
you know brush up in terms of developing
his ideas
and you know extending the main idea
that's so good to be able to yeah once
the student often once you raise
awareness of something like that
or you know we talk often about
mechanical linking and the students come
back and say oh i've just checked my
old essays and i can see i can see the
problems that i was making they can see
it for themselves which is
yeah a real real obstacle that has
already been overcome
now there's something that i like to do
with the students
and it's like a routine a teacher
routine
is that every time they get feedback
they list their mistakes
so that they're really aware really list
make a list of the mistakes
and then look into those issues so
if they're having article issues for
instance i always recommend
amber's videos she has three amazing
videos
and she has one that is when not to use
the article
so it's not something that we see
frequently but it's so helpful
so i have the students list the mistakes
and send me the list
so that we can work on that and that is
we learn a lot from mistakes
it's incredible it's very productive to
work on your mistakes
absolutely so should we go into the
oh sorry no but i would say there are so
many other students that i would love to
mention but
it as a it's very rewarding to see them
come back with those scores isn't it
definitely yeah and that's also great
when they come into the live class
because it's so encouraging
for the other students to see i mean
particularly somebody to go from then
six to eight
just to show them it's possible it can
happen
and even those who do it in a short
period of time you know those big jumps
are possible with
with good guidance and feedback which
you do offer
should we talk about the criteria each
one in
in detail and we'll just cover what
problems we've seen
in our experience and what we sort of
recommend to help the students make that
jump so the first one in writing task
two is task
response which is all about
answering the question clear position
idea development supporting with
examples and evidence so
what would you say you mentioned um was
it ahmed who had the problem of
idea development do you think that's the
most common
problem that people have they don't take
their ideas far enough
well in terms of task response yes that
is definitely
but also i see that that not
they they struggle with expressing their
opinion
so because i think that we we revisit
some concepts and in the past
if the question did not ask to express
your opinion
you just didn't put your opinion in it
and
based on experience and the students
feedback
you have to put in your opinion and
there's a very funny video that you and
jay recorded about this and okay so the
writer of this essay thinks
this this this right yeah so no you have
to put in your opinion
clear it has to be clear so they're very
reluctant
so if the question does not ask what is
your opinion they really
feel uncomfortable but after
they do it and they succeed they come
back
uh saying okay yes it's true and and
in the band descriptors it's very clear
right yeah
you have breasts a clear opinion
throughout the response
yeah well clear yeah clear opinion clear
position and you're right that's our
message now is to
just err on the side of safety so the
examiner is looking for an opinion
whether or not it's been asked for
it we give it anyway and for something
like problems and solutions i would tell
them
if you're saying these are the problems
and these are some solutions
that is your opinion that's still coming
from you so that that works as a
position as well you don't need to say
i agree this is a problem or this isn't
a problem but just saying
i feel that these are two of the main
causes or these are two of the
main problems that is that's position as
well
but the idea development i think um yeah
i think that that's something
that's definitely something that comes
with experience with ielts teachers
because
students learn a certain format there's
a certain template sometimes that the
students will follow
and it really allows them to take their
ideas further so the way that we
teach in the live classes by using those
questions i think really helps them to
take their idea as far as it can go and
i've seen your classes where you really
encouraging them to explain why explain
how with an example
and then add another step to it can you
talk about
how you tell them how you teach idea
development
well firstly in order to develop well
the ideas planning has to be done
and in neurolinguistics we study this
our mindset
functions in different ways so during
the planning it's like a rush mode
you're brainstorming you're jotting down
your ideas
so your mindset functions in a different
way
once you start writing it changes mode
and we go into like a flow mode and
if you don't make a plan and you start
writing without the plan
you have to stop generate ideas and then
go back so your mindset goes back and
forth
we don't realize this but it's time
consuming it's exhausting and the
results
are disastrous so yeah
so in order to develop well the ideas
you need to plan previously
so task response depends upon a good
plan
generating a good plan and it's a matter
of just getting used to it you know
doing practice and learning how to make
a plan
[Music]
yeah absolutely very vital step i think
in the
test situation if particularly if the
students haven't practiced before
there's such a
instinct to just go straight into
writing and as you said that is
disastrous and it's immediately clear to
an examiner when a work when a piece of
writing is unplanned it's a
it's an absolute mess and it's going to
compromise not only task response but
also
coherence and cohesion the score in that
one as well because of the
disorganization
so once they have the plan done then
they're going to start to write so
they're going to start the topic
sentence
they're going to put in the reason an
example
now we want them to extend this
it's not that we want them but ielts the
criteria asks for that
and then they have to that's when they
take a few seconds and they ask
themselves okay so
what is the consequence of this what is
the impact
and automatically it extends the main
idea
because it's a sequence you put in a
topic sentence you put the reason
you put the example suddenly you you
know stretch it out a little bit more
but stretch it out
with relevant information because you're
showing the impact
uh the consequence the results so
it can't be more relevant it's the best
way to put relevance into it as well
yeah and such a difference from a
paragraph that contains you know three
or four
ideas that haven't gone through those
steps of
explanation and example and effect
that will really take at that next level
and yeah you're right up at band 8 and 9
it's
looking for a fully developed fully
developed supported ideas so not just a
list of ideas definitely and i think
that that can make a huge difference
especially from
from band six up to band seven really
taking an idea as far as it can go is is
definitely a good thing to do
um on to coherence and cohesion the
linking so this
criterion looks at how well organized
ideas are
and also how they are glued together
so what would you say are some of the
errors that prevent people scoring
seven why do students score six or five
in this part
well definitely the topic sentences are
major when the students realize
what is a what what is the intention of
having a topic sentence in their
paragraph that is
why you put in a topic sentence it
becomes
some of them say okay now i now i know
what i have to
do so the topic sentence means you are
introducing to the reader what is going
to be discussed in that paragraph
and it's the best way for you to and
then you will link
this sentence to the previous paragraph
and introduce the next one
so topic sentence is certainly a is a
an element that the students have to
learn to work on
and it's valuable because it makes the
writing so much
uh it flows much better when you have
the topic sentences well
structured and i always tell them if
there's if they get stuck if they if
they feel that they're just not
they're stuck use the simple sentence
uh because we need several structures
and simple structures we also need
so suddenly they shouldn't get stuck
they should
elaborate a simple sentence in terms of
structure but with the idea
and they they can develop the paragraph
and even go back
principles are doing the computer base
go back this probably then they'll be
able to stretch out the sentence a
little bit
more but they have to get a kick start
yeah
so something like there are there are
two main reasons
for um the obesity crisis or something
like that it's a
it's a nice simple way to introduce
exactly simple sentence
just to kick start
and then they they'll be able to develop
that paragraph
and another thing is that paragraphs
don't focus on a single idea
sometimes they try to you know put in so
many ideas and
it that becomes confusing
and disastrous once again
yeah and down on a more micro level i
think um
the the use of linking words is also
something that
even when they're being used technically
correctly if they're
mechanical which is you know they're too
obvious they're
firstly comma secondly comma we talk
about that all the time i feel like a
broken record in the live classes but
that kind of linking even though it's
right it it's called mechanical linking
in the criteria
and so the students need to be aware of
that if they want to score seven the
linking has to be more sophisticated
than that so rather than
firstly secondly it can be one of the
in addition to this another it's a
little bit and also
moving those linkers away from the start
of the sentence is something that we
we work on in a lot of our classes and
it makes a huge difference i think the
students can
immediately see how much better their
work is when the linking is
not so obvious pronoun news definitely
is an
issue also they're not aware because
many of them come from
the mother tongue uh the verbs that
the verb itself already holds the
subject
so they really don't need a subject in
the sentence
so the the use of pronouns for them is
kind of like
it's not very clear and this this is a
very important element
for coherence and cohesion is the use of
pronouns
for english yeah definitely getting all
those
they and it's right in a sentence
yeah definitely that can cost seven for
sure yeah
so in order to get a band seven or a
band eight i would
sort of tell the students actually look
up to band 9 in coherence and cohesion
which says
users linking in a way that attracts no
attention i think that's a good way to
think about
cohesion so when we look at a really
high level paragraph
you can't really spot the linking words
they're not sort of there in lights
they're just
integrated but every sentence holds
hands with the sentences around it
so students have that in mind and then
of course those basics of
clear central topic in each paragraph
topic sentence that's relevant relevant
to the topic and also introduces the
paragraph is there anything else you'd
add
to help students score seven or eight
there i think that if they're able to do
that the seven is
they've got the seven yeah please
if not more you know if they really work
on these
basic elements and it's not something
really complex
once they learn they see how it they
even say well
this is not hard to get done no it's not
but i didn't know i had to do it
that's what they i didn't know i had to
do this i said okay so that's why
the method just going back a little bit
to those successful students
one one point that all of them made was
that definitely
the method you know having that
structure the framework for
for writing for for the essay that was
the turning point they said that it
sends to them and it made them write
faster as well because they didn't have
to
think oh what comes next what's so they
already had that
in their mind how to structure the essay
and how to write it
so the methods is the highlight of all
of the comebacks of the students the
successful students
that's good yeah and i guess having
having that structure in mind it just
eliminates
the decisions that you've got to make on
test day you've already got enough to
think about you're thinking about
grammar vocab answering the question
you don't want to be thinking about you
know what sentence comes after this
sentence so if
with a lot of practice yeah that's
definitely becomes second nature to them
and that definitely contributes to
having successful coherence and cohesion
as well
that framework that we have at e2
language yeah
so vocabularies the next one lexical
resource vocabulary range
and accuracy this is where it starts to
get more
starts to get trickier i think i i feel
like task response and coherence
cohesion as you said
often they just don't know what they're
supposed to
be doing they haven't read the criteria
or you know it's not all that clear in
the criteria but
when we get into vocab and grammar this
is where they're often
kind of fossilized errors or there could
be big gaps in knowledge that
that need to be closed as well so um
yeah i guess the keys to scoring well
are demonstrating range and also
demonstrating
accuracy so what can be done for those
students who are
scoring a six in lexical resource how
can they reach a seven
well firstly they have to avoid
repetition that's definitely because
then it goes into the range
but they also have to understand what
what is accuracy
because some of them they really it's
not clear what is accuracy what is
vocabulary accuracy
so there's a very simple example that i
like to to mention
and it's like okay so tell me about the
public transport in your city
oh no it's good no it's not good it's
efficient
it's cost benefit so that's what it
comes down to when we talk about
vocabulary accuracy
it's not you you just don't use those
good bad sound
you know interesting you have to get
away from those
simple words and really identify what
they're referring to and try to explain
it as if it were a painting
so that the vocabulary will be more
accurate
that's the first they have to understand
the concept of vocabulary accuracy
yeah precision is really important i
think that i think there can be
confusion and and this is where a bit of
mixed messaging comes in
you said repetition is one thing but a
lot of students are
under the impression that if they use
the word once they can never use it
again
through the essay or if there's a word
in the
question then you can't use it in the
essay which is not the case at all you
know
you have to repeat vocabulary of course
words like
people and children you can't start
bringing in weird
synonyms for that but definitely
minimizing how many times you use
the same word in the same sentence is
important
um and yeah and building range i think
is
it comes back to reading as well so if
you're
if your vocabulary is a band six
vocabulary then
it's not suddenly going to change to
band 8 without any input you know
input input input is going to lift your
lift your vocabulary and therefore lift
your score
but there's not a quick solution the way
that there is in task response and
coherence cohesion
in some cases no no and that's another
element that we study in neuro
linguistics is
how do you incorporate and how do you
learn foreign language vocabulary
and studies have shown us that in order
to really
you know incorporate vocabulary you have
to be exposed
50 times to that word for it to really
become
part of your vocabulary
so and either be it listening saying the
word reading the word
you need to be exposed at least 50 times
according to research so
it takes hard work yeah definitely yeah
yeah
all right let's talk about uh correct
i'm sorry i cut you off
now do oh yeah just quickly uh a
vocabulary issue
they think that they have to put in
weird sophisticated words you know like
those things of clithora i don't know
how where this comes from
but definitely not yes
youtube definitely yeah so that's
something else that i would like to
point out that definitely not
yeah you know and it doesn't it doesn't
sound natural it doesn't
doesn't work yeah definitely agree yeah
sometimes you know simple simple is best
and
putting together a combination of weird
words is not is not going to
get you points it has to be precise it
has to be appropriate
let's talk about grammar possibly the
biggest stumbling block for a lot of
students
um as we mentioned as you mentioned
before error density is something that
is flat out going to prevent a band
seven band seven you have to have
frequent error free sentences
band eight you have to have majority of
error-free sentences so
this is something easy to spot when you
know the assessments come back to the
students they can see from the teacher
well there's errors everywhere or there
might be just a couple of
errors which is a better indication so
grammatical accuracy
what can students do so when when you're
marking the assessments and you spot
you mentioned articles or you might spot
errors with
verb tenses or punctuation what what can
they do to
eliminate those problems like i said
firstly they have to be aware of these
mistakes
and they have to understand that grammar
is it's like the basics
so some of them feel that they go to
study the articles and it seems so
simple but they're just not getting it
enough
so they really have to understand the
basics
when to use an indefinite article when
to use a definite
it has to be very clear and they have to
practice
and they have to practice those they may
feel repetitive
exercises you know fill in the gaps or
this and that
it's the only way to really um you know
get grammar right it's through a lot of
practice
and and knowing the rules you have to
know the rules
and study the rules yeah yeah definitely
and i think
writing as well sort of free writing is
is an important step to to take the you
know i think
a lot of the old textbooks are grammar
textbooks you know there was a lot of
just
pattern following a pattern and the
students could could get it i could
probably do it in another language just
following a pattern but
then producing it writing it myself or
saying it myself
often we would you know used to see in a
traditional class and the wheels would
just fall off at that point so
giving that chance to have a go right at
which we do in the live classes like
here's a sentence you have a go and we
check in the
in the chat box in the chat box rather
you can see who's got it and who hasn't
and
slowly help them to close that gap
definitely so the basics they really
need to focus
and learn the basics and even if it
sounds repetitive and
but the basics of grammar
will guarantee that they will be able to
write or build or
you know construct the sentences
grammarly accurate
and that's what they need to do so they
really have to focus on this
and what about range which is the other
aspect in this criterion
how do they demonstrate range in writing
so regarding grammar right
so they that's another issue it's about
the sentence structures then
they have to really put in the
varied and different sentence structures
and complex it has to be for the seven
so they have to bring in
those so they have once again to learn
the basics what is a conjunction
what how to use the conjunction so
once again it's about the basics they
have to believe and trust that when we
tell them
go to the core skills watch those videos
you know
uh and do exercises that
that's going to help them improve their
grammar yeah that's such a great
resource
on the platform the core skills section
there's dozens and dozens of those
little micro lessons that really target
um a specific a specific grammar point a
really tiny
micro point that for some students can
can make all the difference you know
make
making improvements with articles
there's articles in almost every
sentence so if you can work on that and
improve
suddenly the error density is going to
drop a lot
and if you can learn how to use a
conditional sentence how to use the
passive voice then
your range is increasing as well
definitely so any
final words for students who are
as you said they can be devastated with
the stuff
being stuck on 6.5 the students who are
really looking for
a solution what would you advise them
and i guess it comes
back mainly to feedback what can we what
can we offer them
well definitely first of all getting
feedback
that is i mean it's the only way that
they will be able to
see where they're going wrong understand
and improve so once again learning from
mistakes but they need
to know where their mistakes are if they
don't get feedback
they just won't know where the mistakes
are and they won't be able to improve
and progress that so assessments and
feedback that would be essential it
would be i would say
the only way to really improve your
writing
is to know where you're going wrong know
how to get that right
so talking and having a tutorial
or the live classes with the ielts
specialist at e2 language
because that's the only way to guarantee
that
you'll be able to to get it right
firstly knowing where
what you have to do where you're going
wrong and what to do to correct it
[Music]
it's quite simple in fact but it takes
hard work
and there are no shortcuts you know
sometimes
give me some tips and some tricks i
would love to
have that i would love to be a magician
but that's not
it it really is hard work no shortcuts
you know and they have to be they have
to be focused
persistent and uh really
you know dedicated yeah yeah
absolutely it's sort of a team a team
effort i guess the e2
approach where we really support the
students through the
through the live classes they come and
learn that structure they learn
how to work under time pressure and then
into the assessments and the tutorials
they can get that added support but
there's also the expectation that
students got to be
working you know if you just come along
to a live class and you just watch and
don't
do anything or you skip through and take
a screenshot of the
sample you know what what's that going
to do for you it's
really that's not a good use of a live
class but actually
doing it and then getting feedback from
us i think is is what makes all the
difference for the students
definitely and they have to you know
uh adopt steps
for themselves so as they practice and
as they study
they will be able to to have a routine
it's really it
it really is all about procedure so read
the essay prompt
understand the essay prompt clearly if
they
if they have read it once and it's not
very clear they have to go back and read
it again
then start to work on your planning then
start writing
so it is about you know having a a
clear view of what has to be done
and that takes practice enough of course
knowing what has to be done and that's
what we do in the life classes with them
right in the tutorials okay so let's
read the essay prompt did you understand
no
read it again and now let's get ready to
generate ideas
now we're ready to write so we we guide
them through it
and they have to incorporate this
routine and you know
accept it as as really beneficial for
them
yeah let go of bad habits
definitely exactly the e2 students or
students who are not yet e2 members and
if they want to join your classes
how can they find you what classes are
you teaching at the moment
well at the moment empty i love teaching
the weekend classes i really do
i'm teaching saturdays and sundays on
saturdays task one
general on sunday's task two
and task two i i must admit that i have
a problem with time management
i must say because there are so many
questions and i
i really don't want to leave any
questions unanswered
so please bear with me if you join my
class
because i only extend it in order to be
able to answer sometimes
i turn off the recording and i stay
answering because
it's like i really i really don't want
any students with unanswered questions
and that's such a big on thursday sorry
it's a big class definitely definitely
but also it's a very productive class
because
uh the students share experience and
some students they have so many
wonderful ideas
they and so that's another interesting
thing about feedback because when you
get feedback
not only do we point out the mistakes
but we also point out
where the student has done a good job so
suddenly he's doing a good job
and he's not he doesn't he's not even
aware so in order for him to continue
that this is good
keep it up you know so it's important
that he knows where he's doing well and
where he's doing wrong
so besides the writing classes are there
other
other life classes where we can catch
you yep the reading class is on
thursdays 8 p.m melbourne time
that's the mock class so it's a little
bit more fast paced we try to
you know we don't go through language
skills but we do go through the methods
and once again the methods in reading
they are a definite boost
to performance if you learn how to use
the methods
your performance will improve
significantly you will really
hit your scores so i highly recommend
the mock classes of course
and and sometimes i can do the study
study group which i i enjoy so much
study group our weekly study group
definitely
and then tutorials is another way that
students can connect with you and also
the
you run some of the mock speaking tests
as part of our
speaking intensive package and our mock
test
definitely the mock tests i highly
recommend
and i think that there are two good
moments for the student to take the mock
test
let's suppose he has just started and he
has no idea where he stands
so that could be a good moment so that
based on his results a study plan could
be designed
and for him in particular for that
student in particular
or if you're like one week away from
your test and you want to
to know where you stand as well you
still
when the results come in you still have
time to catch up
if you're lagging somewhere i think that
these are two very good moments
to take mock tests yeah i agree
well thank you dr anna for all your
insights and thank you as always for
your work with the e2 students
do you have any final words oh it's
always such a great pleasure to be
with the students and teaching and you
know developing their skills and
seeing their results that's the most
rewarding as i said
tears of joy are so constant when i get
feedback from the students
and i see that they have improved and
they can move on with their plans
so and that's and i mean that's one of
the wonderful things of
being part of the e2 team is having this
experience you know
sharing with them with the students and
the results
it's it's all about that it's all about
the students getting
and you know reaching their goals
absolutely
well thank you so much for your time and
we will see you very soon in
a live class or a tutorial certainly
certainly
thank you so much it was so wonderful to
be here thank you
thanks cool hopefully you found that
podcast
useful and helpful of course alex and
anna are
complete experts when it comes to
everything ielts
anyway if you need more help check out
e2language.com
i'll see you soon
you